After the Boston Public Library, I would like to welcome you to today's program.
My name is Joe Raker, and I have the privilege of being able to emcee today's program.
The focus of this program will be on public libraries, the past and future, and the Boston Public Library has played a significant role in that public library movement in the United States.
I should mention that this is one of many events and programs that are taking place during this month.
as we celebrate the 150th anniversary of the Boston Public Library.
Many of these programs will be held here in Coughley, but a lot of the programs also will be held in our neighborhood branches.
Our speaker today is Mr. John Berry III.
And before I ask Mr. Berry to come to the podium, I'd like to say a few words about him.
A few words to highlight some of the points in his illustrious career.
Many of us know that Mr. Berry has been editor and editor-in-chief for many years of Library Journal.
Some of us may not know, however, that he was a young adults and reference librarian at the Reading Public Library.
He was also a reference librarian and assistant director at the Simmons Library College.
Mr. Berry received his MLS from Simmons College.
He taught library science at Simmons College.
He also taught at the University of Pittsburgh and the University of Washington.
Most recently, he is a journalist in residence at Louisiana State University.
On many occasions, he was a recipient of the Connors Medal of Excellence for his editorials and also received the Lippincott Award for achievement in the field of librarianship.
Dedicated to the role of the library as a socially responsible institution, Mr. Berry is a prolific writer, a dynamic thinker, and an outspoken critic.
I have to say, a few months ago, I was in New Orleans at the mid-winter meeting at the American Library Association.
I was talking to John about coming here today for this presentation, and we were having breakfast and sitting there and talking, and it was very interesting, and I really enjoyed it, but I was disappointed
because we both had a takeoff and go to meetings, and I could have stayed here for a few more hours.
So I was really looking forward to hearing him today.
I'm sure that you two will find that he is very informative and his fellow is very engaging.
I would like you to join me in welcoming Mr. John Berry.
Thank you.
Is there any way to figure out how the public library will look and function in the near or far future?
Whatever the answer to that rhetorical question, I'm gonna try.
So I've convinced myself, obviously, that it is impossible.
After all, I believe that most of the secret to predicting the future, the library's future particularly, is buried in its past, and that understanding and predicting
is at least by half the job of historian.
If we look back at the public library in the year 1984, say, or further back, 1894, if you like, we know that yes, we can expect massive change in the apparatus used to provide library service, but if that history truly repeats itself, or has any lessons for us at all,
Then we also know that in the year 2000 and even 2020, the fundamental mission of the public library in the unique and very special way that it carries out that mission will not be very different from the mission it has today.
We know now that for the great libraries like this grand old Boston Public Library, that mission has not changed for a century and a half.
nor have the needs for which that mission was drafted and created and met those needs are still with us.
What has changed, and what will continue to change at a rate we can barely comprehend, is the way in which people get a great deal of the information they need, along with a lot of the entertainment and recreation.
There can be little doubt that most people, the overwhelming majority of people,
like those of us here today who are securely placed in the world's relatively affluent middle classes and upper classes will not or will be able to get most if not all the information they need through some sort of electronic device.
Probably from some sort of network, whether it's cable television or the airwaves or over the internet or from whatever.
The new device among the common carriers of information turns out to be the newer and newer manifestations of that thing that we
now called internet.
We used to call the information superhighway until we were tired of that metaphor.
For most purposes, particularly those seemingly immediate or urgent purposes for which information is needed, people, middle class or more avalanche people, will get it at their desk.
Their workstation to use for techie talk.
And that workstation will increasingly be in some
corner of their own.
To predict that library future, then, we'll have to consider a couple of fundamental questions.
The first is deeply historical, as I just said.
The second is truly contemporary and even futuristic, highly technological.
First, we have to study what is the traditional role of the library in our society, and particularly the role of the library as it relates to informing our people, and why we have asked that it be provided by government through taxes,
Second, we will have to try to understand what will be the impact of the new information technologies, many of which haven't been invented yet.
The impact on the way information is created, stored, retrieved, and disseminated.
Now, I hope by juxtaposing our answers to these questions, we'll be able to compare how information has and does fit into the library's traditional mission and whether the new technology has really changed that relationship or whether it will change it much more in the future.
Ultimately, I hope we can arrive at a conclusion that puts these two questions into one answer.
An answer that tells us what the future mission of the library will be and how that library will operate, whether it's in Boston, California, or in suburban Connecticut, where I live.
Let's turn then to the first of the considerations, the one that's decidedly historically.
In recent years, most public library systems in our country have developed written mission statements, and many have tried at the urging of their national organization, the Public Library Association, to concentrate and strengthen, is what they call it, that mission, to avoid the diffusion that comes of being everything to everyone.
In my view, they have not been entirely successful, and yet they have maintained a tradition, a connection to the mission that lies at the roots of the public library movement in America,
My favorite statement of that original and ongoing public library mission was written right here in Boston in 1852.
That was when the trustees of the Boston Public Library asked the city fathers to create a public library and build it with tax money.
Let me just share a short sample of what they said.
It has been rightly judged that under political, social, and religious institutions like ours, that it is of paramount importance
the means of general information should be so diffused that the largest possible number of persons should be induced to read and understand questions going down to the very foundations of social order.
Questions which are constantly presenting themselves at which we as a people are constantly required to decide and do decide either ignorantly or wisely.
In other words, those trustees asserted that in a democracy, when one citizen is better informed and or better educated, everybody benefits.
That's why they decided that, in effect, information is a public good.
The kind of good that must, for efficiency and for fairness, be provided by government through taxes.
This is a crucial point in understanding the library mission.
public library in America is supported by local taxes with assists from the state and federal level of government but those are taxes too so it is crucial to understand that the mission of the institution in the past and as far as the future as we can see must include cognizance of the fact that whatever it does it must be worthy of tax support that means it's different from a store from a business
or a private product-making enterprise.
And that is a difference we must always keep in mind in that it is that difference that has made it difficult for the library to try and not to try to be all things to all people.
For as a tax supporter, the library has had to be accountable to all, all the people of all ages.
That public accountability is embedded
in the very reason for being as those Boston trustees captured a century and a half ago or more.
It includes nearly everything for everybody, as it should in an institution paid for by taxes and designed to serve the entire population.
Yet even here, you do it for a tiny fraction of the total cost of government.
I was informed this morning that in Boston, it's about the library, but it's about
three quarters of one percent of the cost of government.
Less than a percent.
There's a huge bargain everywhere, no matter how you look at it.
It may be the most, probably is the most efficient service of government, serving so many people for so little.
Now in 1852, those Boston trustees went on to emphasize the service should do exactly what they are still trying to do here, and as they do throughout the nation.
Just quote them again.
Carry as many books as possible.
Today we would have videos, computer programs, all the print and electronic materials that make up the collections of a modern library.
Carry them to the homes of the young, they said, into poor families, into cheap boarding houses, they said.
In short, wherever they will be most likely to affect life and raise personal character and condition.
And that's a basis for a very clear statement of mission.
And when you assess the problems in our society today, the educational information needs of our people of all ages, it still holds.
Indeed, given the pressures on our society, those information needs are greater than ever.
We may add videotapes and CDs and a host of electronic impulses to those books we carry or into the homes of the young or into those cheap boarding houses.
But that doesn't change our purpose, to supply whatever will affect life and raise personal character and condition.
It's really surprising that even before the widespread use of telephone, long before the invention of the internet, the library saw the necessity of carrying its wares to people's homes if they were going to be induced to make use of those wares.
Technology is not about to change that.
In fact, it's going to make it easier.
For many, however, the only way to gain access to the abundance of information in electronic formats will have to be through the library.
We may use a wire or the airways or that ubiquitous internet to carry that material to the people, but our mission is unchanged.
There are two other aspects to our history that help define our future, and I'd like to spell that out for you.
What's the difference between libraries and other sources and or agencies for supplying information?
or anything, for that matter.
I first heard this idea from a man named Dan Lacy, now retired, who rose to a fairly high level at the McGraw-Hill Publishing Company.
To Lacy and to me, in addition to many other things they do, libraries are clearly one of the major information sources in our society.
People don't always make that connection, although you've heard about how Arthur did if you were here this morning, Arthur Curley.
They don't make that connection when they use a library, but in my view and Lacey's, libraries are really one of the information media, along with radio, TV, newspapers, and the like.
But as Lacey pointed out, libraries are the medium with a crucial difference.
The other media, newspapers, television, radio, magazines, and all, have as their purpose the selection from the infinite amount of information, that small portion that can be squeezed into a
half-hour news broadcasts, or a few pages of newsprint or a sick paper.
In other words, they select only what they think is important from all the available current information and broadcast that relatively small selection after careful rewriting and editing to thousands, actually millions.
They are broadcast sources, and as such, they are forced to be highly selective in order to reach great masses of people effectively and easily.
in limited space and or time.
The library reaches the same numbers of people, but it does so from a totally different point of view, utilizing a very, very different method.
Very recent public opinion surveys show that libraries are used by between 60 and 75 percent of the total population on a regular, frequent basis.
That's almost a higher rating than broadcast networks and certainly is a higher rating than
McDonald's or professional baseball or a lot of other things like that.
Unlike the newspaper or the broadcast media, instead of selecting from the available information and winnowing that information down to a half hour of television or a few pages of print, libraries try singly and collectively to gather all the knowledge of humankind, all the information.
Not only do they come very close to that goal, but then they organize and classify that information.
They build tools, many of them
electronic tools, to give people access to that information.
And most important, though, is that they deliver that information to one citizen, one individual user at a time.
One citizen has thus given access to the entire record, to all the information, without any intervention from rewrite editors or copy desks or any time and space constraints, like that column on page newsprint or that half-hour broadcast.
In a library, then, all the information is focused on one individual inquiry.
And that individual is given all the space or time he or she needs to pursue that question in as much or as little depth as he or she wants.
All the library does, whether it is to automate, to help that individual find his or her way to the information faster or more easily, to provide more librarians, take him or her by the hand of the information,
or to build a collection to serve that individual's needs in everything that library does.
The aim is to serve that individual one-to-one more effectively.
Now certainly technology is not going to reverse that, even if it does make it more effective and more efficient, even if it does change the very way we get information and the way we are able to use it and deliver it to those homes of the young in that cheaper way.
The magnitude, however, of that task, as we all know so well, is overwhelming.
We're talking about growth of information on the internet alone of what they call one terabyte a month.
I don't even know what a terabyte is.
As many studies show, nonetheless, libraries do that job well enough to attract that more than half the population on a regular basis.
More impressive, they do it for that business.
Libraries in general in our country
have never received more than 2% of the total cost of government.
Actually, very rarely, more than 1%.
That's right, 1%.
There is also a building conflict in that terrible, terrible job and in that early public library mission, just as there is in its modern and will be in its future articulations.
You see, libraries were founded as community agencies, as public as the town pump, as they said when they founded
Public Library in Portland, Maine.
At the beginning of almost every public library, the founders had a very clear vision of what the institution could do for the community it served, the town, by extension, the state, and the nation.
Our predecessors decided, and we've agreed with them ever since, that a library is good for the community, good for all the citizens.
The Boston documents, that special document that I quoted from, just rings with this message
it seemingly pitted against this communal tradition, is our other and its most sacred tradition.
It's almost an American invention, the notion that that government is best which governs least.
We believe that individual freedom and personal liberty is basic, is indeed God-given.
We believe so strongly in that tradition of individual freedom that despite our agreement that we need communal solutions to many of our problems,
solutions like the public library, we're still always a little, forget it, we're a lot suspicious of our government.
We're always extraordinarily reluctant to give it any power to curb that individualism that was, after all, a very recently left the old world for the new.
Don't tread on me, we said, as we've built a system of government and society that reflects that individualism to a greater degree than any honor.
began right here in Boston.
The library, in the way it serves, and in the materials with which it serves, symbolizes that American tradition of individualism to just as great a degree as it symbolizes our other tradition of finding community solutions to mutual problems.
As a result, building the mandate, mission, and operated services of our public libraries, there's a strong reflection of the conflict
between these two traditions of community and individualism.
Libraries and library collections reflect exactly what has made it so difficult for we Americans to decide what is the proper role of government in our affairs.
It's so difficult to decide which of our individual freedoms we must compromise, how many of our hard-earned dollars usually we must sacrifice if we are to be able to live together as neighbors
whether we're committed to the Yankees or citizens of Los Angeles or Boston or whatever.
The public library not only symbolizes the two traditions, but it attempts valiantly to serve both as well.
Like the public libraries in the rest of America, this grand old Boston Public Library must constantly attempt to serve that very schizophrenic mission possible.
Libraries carry out that mission well enough to be the most used government agency of all,
and got a sack right up there with all the private agencies as well, and at the same time, the most efficient and effective libraries are government at its best.
Serving, helping, accessible, and alas, very expensive.
Other conflicts arise as part of that library mission mandate to serve every individual.
Is it commitments that the individual can find in our collections and services?
Every point of view.
from Chairman Mao's Little Red Book to Liz Mein Kampf.
That means librarians have had to champion the freedom to read on the one hand and welcome everyone into their buildings, collections, programs, and services with the other.
That means that they've not only had to champion easy access to even the most unpopular idea, the most obscure part, and most important, the most deep detail of the information on every issue before us.
If you really want to know about healthcare
campaign finances or how we measure up against the rest of the world, you won't get it from the TV news or USA Today, God knows.
To get the whole story, to get all sides of the issue without the biases of Ted Turner or Richard Murdoch or Sulzberger of the Times, you have to research it at the library.
Librarians have even developed specific ways to evaluate all those resources to be sure that the reference books and all the materials
did what they promised when they were advocates, to be sure, in fact, that the taxpayers got their money's worth from the portion of their taxes that went into that library collection.
I don't mean to labor this, but librarians have been geniuses, stretching those tax dollars, 60% of the people, 75% of the people, regularly, frequently, 60%, one more, in as much or as little depth as they wish,
They give information, recreation, community, face-to-face interactions with people, programs, story hours, videos, CDs, access to networks, and of course the full range of print resources, encyclopedias and magazines and pamphlets, all the electronic stuff.
You'll find America's next Common Sense by its next Tom Paine, its next self-reliance class, next Emerson,
its next Howell by its next Allen Ginsberg, its next Civil Disobedience by its next Borough, its next Invisible Man by its next Ralph Ellison right there in the library.
Believe it or not, I'm even optimistic that technology will not change that.
Not if we continue to make it part of the fundamental mission of the public library as we always have.
So let's turn to our second basic question and one that is decidedly contemporary and futuristic.
What will be the impact of the technology on the way the library operates?
It is not so much good news and bad news, but rather huge change ahead, and yet huge similarity to the present.
There is no doubt that digital technology, that's the digital technology that is here and to come, coupled with telecommunication, again already here and yet to come, has revolutionized and will continue to revolutionize
the way we create, store, organize, disseminate information.
Libraries will, as they have been, be on the cutting edge as it progresses.
They will not, however, abandon or junk all the earlier technologies, not even those collections that print on paper.
They are too valuable.
They're too important.
And for now, for a long time, as far as most of us can see, they are still the only way to the vast majority, that the vast majority of Americans,
can get in-depth information, ideas, entertainment, and private at their own pace, unedited, uncensored, and unfiltered by any intervening authorities.
After all, most of our society's information still is in print on paper.
That will change, but it will take decades just to digitize our historical documents, let alone keep up with our contemporary literature and history.
That means that for as far as we can see,
Certainly now, way beyond 2001 and beyond 2020, our libraries will have to live with what techies are calling hybrid systems.
They mean we will have to live with paper and electronic sources working together to serve that individual.
The transition has already gone pretty far, however, to get most basic information to that individual in a variety of electronic forms.
And they even change the nature of that information for if you're studying art or carpentry or music or surgery or even trial of law, it's obviously better to have both individual visual images and sound along with your text.
The resources of the library will therefore become obviously increasingly multimedia.
That change has already begun and has already revolutionized the use and delivery of information.
It will continue to come on like that very, very fast.
Secondly, those resources will be delivered over the airwaves or wired as often as they are over-the-counter in physical packages.
Indeed, they will be interactive.
That is, the user of these multimedia resources will be able to manipulate them in new ways.
Some pundits, and I'm beginning to agree with them, say that this interactivity will change the very nature of the information and the entertainment.
John Perry Barlow made this point way back.
Well, a couple years ago, an issue of Wired Magazine, and when information is interactive, it changes every time it's used.
This has huge implications for copyright and other intellectual property policy.
The librarians will have to get involved in these issues, but I don't have time to divulge that point.
What I do believe is this.
The new technologies have and will continue to change our creation and use of all forms of information and entertainment in unpredictable ways.
They won't change the basic mission of the tax-supported library service.
And the other thing that technology will do is force librarians and libraries to get back to basics, to return their roots as champions of free access to all these resources for every person in America, regardless of his or her age or race or educational level or economic status or class or where he or she lives.
This simply reinforces that mission
spelled out so eloquently in Boston, it was 150, 146 years ago, whatever it is.
It also reinforces that role of libraries and librarians to champion the unpopular, to be sure that the ease with which they can manipulate or pull the plug or put a fair meter on the electronic technologies doesn't keep information that people need off the network or make it inaccessible to all because they are on the wrong side
don't have the money, or want to compete, or because someone wants to be a seeker.
This is perhaps the toughest role of all, for you see it makes enemies.
When that protector of corporate America, Dun & Broad Street, decided not to allow a trade union to partake of its corporate information services, or me, Data Central, which was later bought by the company I work for, decided to shut down access for educational institutions because its commercial firms
we began to see the kind of thing that could happen.
Now some will assert that it is perfectly okay for those who own information to lock it up if they want to.
And I guess that's okay too.
But I really think information cannot really be owned at all.
I say it's not a commodity because it is not scarce.
We have more than enough.
It's never consumed.
When you share it,
You sell it.
When you steal it or it's stolen from you, you still have it.
Once information exists, it never goes away.
Barlow says it has another characteristic.
Until it is shared, until information is moved from one mind to another mind, it doesn't really exist at all, does it?
Whatever the outcome of ongoing debates about information policy, we know one thing.
Information.
whether on paper or in an electronic system, always escapes.
We also know that whenever information is shared, things work better.
Everybody benefits.
Information always escapes, and that makes everything work better.
These are very, very important characteristics, and that library and librarian of the future must be prepared to deal with it and champion the movement.
out to all the people, just as they decided to do in Boston in 1852.
That future librarian will have to champion the unpopular idea, the unofficial record, the unauthorized report, the obscure fact, the unknown artist, poet, or author, the different notion.
The library, to what we're extending, the trade network will have to become the unwrap of signs and direction signals to ensure that those alien vehicles, that new common sense, that next self-reliance,
that next generation's howl, an update of civil disobedience, to ensure that those alien vehicles, those revolutionary tracks, can get into the center lane on that information superhighway.
To conclude, I want to share with you my favorite reading from the doozmo sign of economics.
It was written years ago by one of my favorite American heroes and economists, MIT's Paul Samuelson,
It was in that standard text that we all used for undergraduate economics when I was in college, and I guess some still do, although other schools of economics, I think, have taken over.
He was an octanean.
The textbook now carries the co-authorship of a man named William Norhouse.
It provides for me the perfect metaphor for the library, past, present, and future.
It goes like this.
Like this.
These save lives in carbon.
But lighthouse keepers cannot reach out to cause thieves from ships, nor would it serve an efficient social purpose to then do exact an economic penalty on ships who use their services.
The light can be most efficiently provided free of charge, for it costs no more to warn a hundred ships than to warn a single ship of the nearby rocks.
We have here a positive externality, a divergence between private and social advantage.
Philosophers and political leaders have always recognized the necessary role of government as a provider of such goods.
Information like the Light from the Lighthouse is a free good.
Access to that information keep public libraries as a public good for all the reasons we've just discussed.
That makes the public library worthy of government subsidy and tax support, and that will be as true in 2020 as it is now.
Those libraries were originally created to serve the education and information
some of the recreation needs of all the people.
We see no reason to think that either that mission or those needs will go away than that is and will be the public library mission for as far into that future as we can see.
The future of the library, then, is to continue to be the community's cultural center, its communally, publicly tax-supported livelihoods, to offer that new metaphor, to be a public agency sending out the light
to illuminate the way for our people to become better informed to learn, better informed to work productively, better informed to understand, to enjoy life in this society, to be good neighbors, encouraging diversity, and most important of all, better informed to make the decisions required of voters and citizens responsible for governing themselves, whether they are rich or poor, rich enough to buy technology or not.
whether they are white or black, right or left, young or old, that is a basic, crucial mission.
It is a need that we must meet as a society, even if we have to do battle for the resources we'll need to meet in.
It is the most crucial mission of the library.
If you believe as I do, the democratic self-government is still the best system yet to buy.
Thank you, John.
I would like to open up the program after discussion, questions and answers from the audience.
Any questions for John?
I see some of them... With all the current talk about the importance of technology and electronics and information systems, I kind of worry about the library's dollars and the quality of good literature.
What is your purpose?
Well, I worry about it too, and I think that we've seen some important signs that there is something to worry about.
But there are some positive signs, and I would turn to those.
I worry about how people don't read as much for pleasure as they once did, and how other forms and other media have replaced good literature.
But we've seen some interesting things happen recently.
We saw, for example, the debacle in San Francisco where they built a brand new library that was going to be cutting edge technology, and the people rose up
led by an author, Nicholson Baker, and really repelled that.
He said, no, it isn't what we want.
We don't want you to replace our beloved books with technology, and we want you to continue to provide us with the resources we need, electronically or otherwise, but it might be has another function here, too.
We want you to pay attention to that and stay with it.
Now the faculty at the University of California in Berkeley
become to complain about the same thing as their library is pushed into a digital future.
So I think that you see in the popular literature, in the popular press, in Harper's, in the New Yorker, and in many other places, lots of other authors joining in to say, look, there are lots of things you can get electronically, but you still need to pursue the novel and the poetry and the other things.
So I'm confident, pretty confident,
that literature will survive, and I think it'll survive as print on paper for quite a long time.
I'm not a worshiper of the author of print.
I think that it is possible that someday some technology will come along on which we can put a novel and read it that way, and it might be lighter and it might be easier to manipulate than the Codex book, but right now I don't see anything on the horizon that does that job.
I've even actually talked to a couple of entrepreneurs
that had a device like that with a novel on it, it was awful.
So far, they're not very far along in that quest, and they may not pursue it, I don't know, but I'm not as convinced.
And most of the real funders in the library field and in the information field as well tell me that they think we're going to have both for as far out as they can see, as I said earlier in my remarks, that for the very reasons that you suggest, that there are certain forms, certain literature that just doesn't let itself
to another format, at least not yet.
Anybody else?
How do you see libraries using their budgets now?
Are they using more of their money to buy electronic and less for print?
That question comes up a lot.
How are they using their budgets now?
Are they going to allocate more money to electronics and away from print?
If you see the budget as a fixed sum and as an unchanging gain, that's possibly
They're going to have to move some of that money away from the old traditional print sources and into electronic sources.
But I think two things really mitigate that situation.
First, I am hopeful that we're, and there's lots of indication out there that this is true, that the society is about to reinvest in libraries again.
A lot of money coming in.
A lot of it is public money and a lot of private money as well, as you see here in Boston.
Our big urban libraries have had a true renaissance these last few years, and they're growing and building, and a lot of that money is being added for books.
Even Bill Gates, who's giving away hundreds of millions to buy technology for libraries, demands and requirements that they stick with the book, and it says that every time he talks about this.
So that's one thing.
And the second thing is I think that that means that more resources will be coming our way.
A lot of those resources will indeed be allocated to technology.
I think there are certain areas where the technology is a far better way to get out the information than through the former uses of print on paper.
I think, for example, a lot of directories and a lot of data sources are far more useful and easy to get at electronically than they were as print on paper.
I think a lot of reference tools have that same quality, and I think that we're beginning to discover that even scholarly research
is easier and less expensive to report electronically than it has been bound a journal that costs so very much and is really sinking academic library budgets now.
I think that change is about to happen over the next five, ten years so that we'll free up resources in a way to go electronic that were previously weighted down by the necessity to print.
and put it in journals and bind them up and put them on library shelves.
That isn't the best way to get a research report always.
So that's my take on that.
I think we've done it.
Yes.
Your talk is highly provocative, and it leads me to yet another kind of argument in support that calls for support of the public library, namely you use the
you know, one can argue that information today, you know, is paid for, and lots of people, you know, have that argument.
We can pay for it.
But what's so very different about the library, this is your public good argument, is that it's also a accumulation.
In other words, you know, this grand old institution
I'm afraid you've used several times, exists and is able to provide those services because of the accumulation over a century and a half.
And no one, no one could possibly afford the information in the sphere without that accumulation, and that that's a crucial part of the good argument.
I think by that argument completely, it's fascinating.
As a matter of fact, there's great concern right now because of this terabyte thing I mentioned earlier.
that the work being done on the preservation of the information that's available only through electronic formats is just not proceeding fast enough to continue that accumulation of data, and that we are in danger of losing a lot of what we know now if we can't quickly get on top of being able to accumulate, as we have with print on paper, those wonderful collections and that history.
And so that is one of the great problems we face by the argument of completeness.
Yes.
I was glad to hear what you last said about I think that there are more resources coming into the public libraries, but it seems to me that there is still a major struggle going on between a tendency to
to fight for more privatization and energy going away from public resources.
And I think that that's the struggle that's still going on.
So I'd really like to hear you say where you see this going.
Well, I'm alarmed by that, that this is the trend to privatize so much of what was formerly public sector.
And in information, we have seen this dramatic change in recent years.
the trend to move.
In fact, the very information produced by our taxes through our government now comes back out of the government and is put back into the private sector and is now sold to us a second time.
We bought it with our taxes.
Now we pay again to a private publisher to buy it again to put back in our libraries, and I think this is a very alarming trend.
Now, I don't have any argument with those who say it is possible and it's a good business to print and package and
I make my living that way myself.
I work for one of the bigger publishers in the world.
But I do believe that one way or another, government has got to have a terribly important role in the collection and dissemination of information, particularly that information necessary to people's continued life, life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
So how do I see them doing that?
Lots of different ways.
One, direct subsidy.
agencies like the public library and the academic library to simply carry out the function of informing the people.
I hope we can make that case, and I think we have.
I think you've heard from even this administration, which is, I think, very friendly to the private sector.
Nonetheless, it is trying to find ways to help libraries get a better subsidy, to direct grants and aid, to buy books, technology, and the whole thing, and also to build libraries, and also to
The program that's proposed is a little complex and a little over bureaucratic, but I think they may iron that out so that we can get better communications rates in order that libraries and schools and institutions of that nature can get that information communicated less expensively in order to carry out their mission to serve everyone.
So I think those are ways that we have a copyright law.
I think if we lobby hard and we work hard, they will continue to have
that provision of that copyright law called the Fair Use Clause, which says, yes, copyright applies.
And yes, you can own information for a limited time if you're the creator of it.
But when it comes to education and government, there is an exemption.
And if it's going to be used for those purposes, the copyright law is not as stringent, doesn't apply as stringently as it would if you were using them for simply to compete with each other and make money.
So I think those are ways we can do this.
Now, do I think we're winning?
No.
I think we're losing that battle.
And I think the general trend toward the privatization of information continues.
And I think we've just got to work a little harder, those of us who believe that these institutions and services need to exist for those who can't afford to buy it.
And I think we've got to press hard on those questions.
And I think we can do that.
And I think our history in the library field tells us.
that we can't be very effective at that when we try hard and work a little harder.
We did win a fair use class when copyright law was revised.
But not only that, more than Carnegie, more than Bill Gates, we did at one point in our history get the U.S.
government in the 50s to spend more money on libraries than either of those men have so far.
So I think it can be done again.
Most of the public libraries throughout America
The newer ones, the ones that have been built, you know, well, most of the public libraries throughout America have a little federal money on them now.
And that's because of that great law that we were able to get past in another time.
We have to sharpen up our lobbying skills and we have to look at this new time.
And we have to tell the private sector, look, we're not trying to threaten you or put you out of business.
We simply want you to contribute your fair share to the education and the information of our citizens.
so that you'll have better neighbors and more informed voters to live with just like we do and me.
Thank you very much, John, and thank you and the audience for coming today in this, again, celebration of 150th anniversary of the Boston Public Library.
The celebration will continue during the month of April and well into May.
There will be many programs, again, both here at Coffey and the neighborhood branches and our first-in-business branch.
The schedule is...